Skip to main content meity-sthub@gov.in Contact : +91-11-24301244 ABOUT US SCHEMES PROGRAM NETWORKS RESOURCE MEDIA REGISTER LOGIN SCHEMES > GENESIS Gen-Next Support for Innovative Startups (GENESIS) With an aim to boost the startup ecosystem in Tier-II & Tier-III cities in the country, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) has approved implementation of the 'Gen-Next Support for Innovative Startups (GENESIS)' Scheme with a budgetary outlay of Rs. 490 Crore for a duration of 5 years. The scheme envisages further scaling up and sustaining the startup ecosystem especially to discover, grow and nurture technology startups. The scheme aims to support approx. 1600 tech start-ups over the course of next 5 years List of selected Implementing Agencies Major objectives of the Scheme: Consolidation of startup related schemes and assets of MeitY for greater efficiency, asset utilization and enhanced support for startups. Provide Tier-II/ III cities focused funding to critically support Pilot/ Investment, Early-stage and deep-tech startups. Strengthening Incubators, building stronger startup ecosystem via capacity building initiatives in Tier II/ III cities. Major components of GENESIS: Entrepreneur in Residence (EiR) Support to students and entrepreneurs to validate their startup ideas so as to create momentum in Tier II/ III cities for entrepreneurship. Pilot Funding Support to startups who have validated their idea and need to pilot their product. Investment Support to startups that are raising funds from the market and this will bring domestic rupee capital into the Tier II/ III cities across India. Deep-Tech Funding Support to a select number of startups that are developing high impact solutions. Group 1 Centers Group 2 Centers Group 3 Centers MSH Incubation Center Statistics: GENESIS Implementing Agencies List of Genesis Incubation Centers Important Links Administrative Approval of Genesis (Attached PDF) Genesis Scheme Brochure (Attached PDF) Get to Know Terms & Conditions Sitemap Careers Feedback About Us Contact Us Grievance Blogs Forum Privacy Policy Faqs Stay Connected Number of Users Visited MSH 2.0 Portal: 606416 Useful Links MyGov MeitY MeitY Dashboard Digital India Corporation Open Government Data National e-Governance Division India Semiconductor Mission Digital India Bhashini Startup India NITI Aayog Subscribe MeitY Startup Hub is legally registered as Independent Business Division(IBD) of Digital India Corporation. ©2023. All Rights Reserved. MeitY Startup Hub - Last Updated On : 13/07/2026